Follow the evacuation order issued by authorities and evacuate immediately. Take your animals with you.
Move to high ground or inland and away from water immediately.
Stay away from the beach. Never go down to the beach to watch a tsunami come in. If you can see the wave you are too close to escape it. CAUTION - If there is noticeable recession in water away from the shoreline this is nature's tsunami warning and it should be heeded. You should move away immediately.
Save yourself - not your possessions.
Remember to help your neighbors who may require special assistance - infants, elderly people, and individuals with access or functional needs.
Return home only after local officials tell you it is safe. A tsunami is a series of waves that may continue for hours. Do not assume that after one wave the danger is over. The next wave may be larger than the first one.
Go to a designated public shelter if you have been told to evacuate or you feel it is unsafe to remain in your home
Avoid disaster areas. Your presence might interfere with emergency response operations and put you at further risk from the residual effects of floods.
Stay away from debris in the water; it may pose a safety hazard to people or pets.
Check yourself for injuries and get first aid as needed before helping injured or trapped persons.
If someone needs to be rescued, call professionals with the right equipment to help. Many people have been killed or injured trying to rescue others.
Help people who require special assistance—infants, elderly people, those without transportation, people with access and functional needs and large families who may need additional help in an emergency situation.
Continue using a NOAA Weather Radio or tuning to a Coast Guard station or a local radio or television station for the latest updates.
Stay out of any building that has water around it. Tsunami water can cause floors to crack or walls to collapse.
Use caution when re-entering buildings or homes. Tsunami-driven floodwater may have damaged buildings where you least expect it. Carefully watch every step you take.
To avoid injury, wear protective clothing and be cautious when cleaning up.